hey I got a question asking me how did I
end up devoting so much of my time as an
adult to the study of languages and this
is one of those questions where I would
have absolutely nothing to say if I
weren't going to be a hundred percent
honest with you if I were only give me
eighty percent honest this video would
be completely vacuous and empty and you
know really nothing to be communicated
the reality is I grew up in Canada and
the Canadian education system every part
of it I have had contact with is
terrible and you know that's not a
tragedy in my life that took place at
just one time it's a tragedy I've had to
face and deal with again and again and
again and what I've had to ask myself in
effect every time I've encountered sort
of appalling lack of competence in the
education system here was to reevaluate
from scratch okay Who am I what do I
want to do with my life how am I going
to be an intellectual how am I going to
deal with the problems that really
matter to me and ultimately how am I
going to pay my rent and earn a living
given that the education system is
terrible exactly where I need it to be
strong competent to meet some minimum
standard of adequacy now obviously not
if one in life has this experience it's
possible you're Canadian and you only
wanted to be a dentist and you went to a
dental college and worked out great for
you and you had no problems like I'm
happy for you I know there were people
offer examples of the contrary I say I'm
happy for them and that said I'm not
making any universal claims about what's
wrong with Canadian occasion system
however many many people have talked to
have actually reported similar patterns
of institutional failures in many other
disciplines across Canada sometimes
course from other departments in the
same universities I'm familiar with so
culturally it is interesting how
widespread the problems I encountered
are and now I mean just I myself
directly dealt with these problems in so
many different place
but you know the real answer the
question of why language became such a
focus for me was he choose just one
example I had a lot of experience in a
department of political science and in
that department of political science I
was really horrified to find that what
was going on was very similar to what
I'd see not just in the Department of
Philosophy but in a department of
theater you know related acting in you
know creative fields what was going on
was that students are being evaluated on
their ability to flatter the professor
and what I mean by flattery is a little
bit complex here it's not just showing
up and telling the professor that he's
handsome and smart but you know the
educational content of the course was
really crowded out was really reduced or
even eliminated by you know a game being
played of you know repeating back to the
professor what he said and why it's
important and agreeing with the biases
ego trips and fascinations of the
faculty at the University and now that
that wouldn't be such a problem if you
were in a program where people were
doing that but they were also gaining
competency in the the core discipline
being taught like you know if there's
flattery going on but people are also
really learning there's Senate matter
that's one thing but when that's the
only thing going on if people are
exiting these courses without you know
basic familiarity with what's being
taught you know that's that's worse and
that that was I mean you know university
of toronto overall I really was shocked
that I had to face up the fact that
although my high school education had
been terrible abysmally low quality high
school education I went to university it
was supposedly the best university in
canada and the quality was even worse in
every way including you know who the
instructors were and what kind of
education they had
you know the high school teachers at
least had some education how to teach
and the people I was dealing with the
university did not in many many ways
they did not know what they were doing
and they didn't want to know they didn't
care it wasn't there their interest or
concern um now look why did languages
emerge as the solution to this puzzle
well what are you going to do if you're
in a situation where everything around
you is basically you're going
to look for the one aspect that is
evaluated in an objective way instead of
in a subjective way the one aspect of
politics for example that is not just
based on agreeing with the professor's
politics and the one thing that opens up
a door to doing original research that
doesn't depend on you flattering with
the professor or happening to have the
same opinion as the professor on
politics or what have you the one aspect
that is not a game and language and the
capacity to do original translations
original analysis already emerged there
tamiya as he took years and you know
nobody taught me any of this stuff it
was just seeing the failures and the
dead ends and the you know depressing
reality of what was going on in Canadian
higher education and it seemed to me
that language was you know the one
aspect here that was something tangible
useful real and we're at the end of the
day even if the professor hates me even
the professor disagrees me politically
you know left-wing versus right wing or
whatever the split is who knows
ultimately sit down and write an exam
and either your answers are right or
they're wrong and the types of games I'd
seen being played around me and
political science and philosophy and
numerous other departments would not be
played anymore so that's really the
crucial first step the second one is as
I mentioned this channel a lot of my own
interests revolt
around at the end of my time at
University the first time back starting
in nineteen ninety-seven am at the end
of that time I was interested in first
nations which is our word here in Canada
for indigenous people so called American
Indians and I was interested in Buddhism
and I was interested in poverty poverty
post-war destruction post-war post
communism etc and I think you may have
heard me comment on the channel before
that in some ways my interest in first
nations is similar to my interest in
Cambodia I'm interested in the struggle
I'm interested in the reality of who
these people really are I'm not
interested in a cartoon I'm not
interested in a glorified ideal drawn
from history 500 years ago I'm not
interested in any kind of hippie or New
Age nonsense you know the Cambodia I was
interested in was the real Cambodia the
post-war you know mess of a country that
emerged from the ashes of communism and
you know tried to build new huts on a
basis of you know scorched earth mass
graves a country that had you know yes
an ancient history of Buddhism but you
know a history that I come to an abrupt
crossroads in the 20th century with you
know the arrival of French colonialism
and now unbelievable challenge posed by
communism I can remember commenting to
uh to people in first nations you know
when I was studying First Nations at
First Nations University in Canada I
remember saying to people you know you
know laos and Canada have have a lot in
common louses the country in Southeast
Asia um you know laws in Canada these
were the two parts of the world where
the British Empire and the French Empire
you know came to their natural limits
and met that's true the border between
laos and myanmar
they used to be British and French
soldiers who would sit and play chess
there where the Empire's met you know
with who are contesting the the furthest
limits of British and French territory
at the edges of the world and likewise
of course the map of Canada was defined
by wars between the British and the
French control territory so just say
post-colonialism post communism poverty
these things United seemingly seemingly
unrelated interests but my point here is
when you've come out of a an education
system that is terrible that's
lamentably awful and you're looking at
any of those fields or all of those
fields you have any of those interests
are all those interests for me the one
aspect that stood out as something real
as something of objective value and
something where I wasn't going to be
evaluated on the basis of how charming
the professor thought I was or to what
extent I agreed with his opinions
politically or otherwise that was
language it seemed to me that the
challenge of language and translation
that was where the stopped and
I was hoping that by really basing my
engagement with Buddhism on language in
the study of the ancient language pally
as well as the modern contemporary
language that I could base my study on
language and politics and that I could
deal with Buddhism without getting drawn
into all of the BS that but it's of his
famous for without in any way being
drawn into the quagmire of this sort of
new age hippie nonsense and you could
say the same it was true way back then
when I was first nervous in first
nations and it was true much more
recently when I went to study you know
creative way these languages in Canada
for me I mean politically one of the
most important struggles is to keep
those languages going extinct and again
the hope being look if I base my
engagement on language
then I have a solid footing to deal with
all kinds of questions of politics and
what have you and the evaluation of me
and my work is not going to be based on
fawning and flattery and and these types
of political considerations I'm now
going to tell a seemingly unrelated
anecdote that may or may not illustrate
this and brought on this over some
people I think in life we go through
changes where we reevaluate our
understanding of what the education
system is how it works what is trying to
teach us who we are as people and what
we want to become and of course what our
career aspirations are I had a
girlfriend many many years ago who
wanted to be a painter want to be a
creative artist she had the idea that
she would earn a living in art
restoration and would then be able to
pay her rent and support herself as a
painter her perspective on this as she
started to look in the details of what
type of education she needed more
qualifications she needed was that to
her dismay everything had to do with
chemistry she needed to go back to
university and take courses in chemistry
she even needed to go back to high
school and take the advanced high school
classes in chemistry and then go to
university and so on and her whole way
of speaking about this was to see the
chemistry as an unfortunate obstacle to
the job and I talked about this with an
older experienced guy a guy who had
worked in that field for many years work
with people in conservation and
restoration have you and he said one
sense to me that was so simple and I got
it he didn't have to say any more on the
subject of chemistry he just said to me
yes but you see that is the job
close quote that was all he said but I
immediately got the point and I went
back and I did try to share with my
girlfriend you know what you're thinking
about as an obstacle to the job what
you're thinking about as a regret abul
drawback to the job that is the job it's
not just that it's the core of the job
or an important part of the job that is
the whole job this job is chemistry and
chemistry is this job you she thinks
about it as something connected to
creative art and her own you know
aspirations life but no you know the
actual work of being a conservation
technician doing art restoration is to
sit down and do chemistry every day that
is the whole job you know on this
channel lately we've addressed people
being frustrated with the apparent
stupidity and in competence of
dietitians people who may have four or
five years in university in a long
process to become a dietitian but who
still apparently don't don't know the
basics or wrong about unbelievable
things would have you well if you
actually know the education system and
how it works wherever it is you live
it's not useful to just say this is all
rubbish unless you're a
multi-millionaire and you can set up
your own educational foundation for the
vast majority of us that can only be the
first step in analysis the first step is
to say something's wrong here can I
understand what's wrong can I understand
to what extent it's problem with me can
I understand what extent it's problem
with the institution and can I
understand what the job is this is
supposed to be preparing me for what is
the core competence this supposed to
lead to and then can I plan my life in a
way that compensates for it now Chinese
was not the language I wanted to learn
not at all Chinese was not my first
choice
it was my last choice but obviously even
the choice of learning Chinese at all
reflects on my part that I'd already
gone to Southeast Asia had already lived
on the banks the Mekong River I'd
studied languages with no teacher and no
textbook I have made my own textbooks
using little bits and pieces of US
military training manuals you know for
languages like Cambodian or their
language materials produced by the US
military and leaflets produced from
united nations refugee camps I'm not
joking I've been through those types of
materials for languages like lotion and
Cambodian and with the language like
pally I made my own materials and people
still download them for the internet
using this day so with tremendous
independence self-reliance creativity
hard work and no teacher and nobody to
help me I worked on all these other
languages but at the end of the day I
needed credentials I needed an MA
possibly a PhD I needed a career and
really the only language I could study
in Canadian academia was Chinese and I
am a prisoner of my passport I've looked
into university programs over the world
but this in itself is it's both part of
the problem and part of the solution in
my case this semester I'm broadening out
a little bit stuck but about advice
about education and so on this semester
i sat down and wrote an essay in one
night all the research all the writing
in one night and I got ninety five
percent and I believe that was the
highest grade anyone got in the class on
that SSM I had another class where the
grade is less impressive as I recalls
88.5 did all the research and all the
writing in one night and that was also
the highest grade in that class so that
that professor is a tough marker nobody
else got an A+ I was the only student
with an A+ on that assignment that class
why did I get such high grades with so
little effort in those two classes the
reality is it's not my intelligence the
intelligence helps the fundamental thing
is that I was sitting in the right
classroom finding the right institution
finding the right professor finding the
right class that's like ninety percent
of the grade right and there were other
classes being taught just down the
hallway that I couldn't possibly succeed
in or where I'd have to work incredibly
hard to get a b-minus because of the
nature of what was being taught the
nature of who was teaching it or you
know the the methodology for for
evaluation for the type of participation
they expect and so on and you know every
semester here I mean this is something
nobody taught me and I didn't know back
in 1997 you know I am rolling classes
and I drop classes the choice of which
classes I'm going to attempt to take it
could totally determines your success or
failure now by that same token so just
giving you examples of course I've done
incredibly well in by that same token
the tragic heartbreaking terrible thing
is when you sit down in a class and it's
terrible and you know that you should
drop it and you know that you must drop
it you can't succeed you know that no
matter how smart you are no matter how
hard-working you are the deck is stacked
against you for various reasons for how
the course is taught or who's teaching
it or what have you and when you know
that when it's not a suspicion you look
like it's not a theory you know for a
fact you cannot succeed in this class
again whether to some extent it's who
you are to some extent to the
institution is certainly matter how it's
being taught that is the worst feeling
in the world especially when it's the
Chinese language course and you just
moved from Taiwan to Victoria
specifically in order to learn Chinese
when the Chinese language class is
terrible
it's an unredeemable failure and there's
nothing you can do to make it work for
you but you also can't drop it and you
don't know what to do so that's the
situation I have just come through now
and even though you know I'm old and
experienced I suffered terribly from
that there's real emotional and
intellectual anguish that comes out of
being in that situation even though it's
a situation of I've been in before so
this sense in which I've tried to
describe the failure of educational
institutions around me shaping my career
choices shaping my destiny if you like
that's not something that just happened
once it's not just that at University of
Toronto the philosophy department was
garbage in the political science part
was garbage and I had to try to figure
out a way ahead in life it's sadly it's
something I've encountered again and
again and again and you know I can't
even list I mean the number of the
number of departments related to
Buddhist studies that were garbage where
there was no way to succeed in it so
that's a long list and amazingly and now
I could also give a long video talking
about First Nation studies in Canada you
know linguistics link to First Nations
and also political science politics is
like two presentations so I could speak
on quite a few different subjects where
I invested a lot of time and effort
trying to find a path that would lead me
ahead and finding nothing so I think
that covers the subject matter of this
video and also in some ways brings you
up to date with my personal life because
so far as I know in the next few months
I am moving to China and I'm going to be
living in China in order to learn
Chinese